harlie Rose: Dan Auerbach is here. The nine-time Grammy Award winning musician is best known as one-half of the Black Keys. He is also an award-winning producer and front man of the garage rock band, The Arcs. He returns with his first solo album in eight years. It is called "Waiting On A Song" The album has been called a love letter to the city of Nashville. Here is Dan Auerbach performing THE track "Waiting On A Song" right here in our studio. (MUSIC) (SINGING) I've been thinking... I've been humming... I've been picking and I've been strumming... Just waiting, waiting on a song... (MUSIC) I've been hitching... I've been thumbing... I can almost hear one coming... I'm just waiting, waiting on a song... (MUSIC) I look down in my pocket, underneath the bed... I walked under a lamp post and one hit me on the head... Am I blind or too dumb to see... All the sounds surrounding me... I'm just waiting, waiting on a song... (MUSIC) You can look up at the stars... Bow your head and count the cars... You'll still be waiting, waiting on a song... Might be a bluebird or a crow on a cord between two posts... They're just waiting, waiting on a song... (MUSIC) Songs don't grow on trees... You gotta pick them out the breeze... You fall down on your knees... And pray one comes along... When those railroad gates come down... You gotta stop and turn around... Or you'll be waiting, waiting on a song... You'll be waiting, waiting on a song... (MUSIC) I'm pleased to have Dan Auerbach at this tablefor the first time. Welcome.
Dan Auerbach: Thanks for having me.
Charlie Rose: Well, it is our pleasure. You said you put everything you know about music in this album.
Dan Auerbach: Yes, sort of. I mean, it's almost like I spent my whole life preparing to make this record in a weird way. You know, just listening to all the records I did and putting together this studio. And then I meet all these great musicians in Nashvilleand they're all suddenly congregating at the studio. And this record sort of came out of like settling into Nashville and kind of living it.
Charlie Rose: A long time since your last solo album.
Dan Auerbach: Yes, it's been a long time. I had success with the Black Keys and we went on the road and we hit it hard and we never stopped, you know. So, I mean, the Black Keys, I think, we took a break last summer and we've been touring for almostfour years solid straight.
Charlie Rose: Plus eight Grammys.
Dan Auerbach: Plus making records.
Charlie Rose: Yes.
Dan Auerbach: Stopping every once in a while to make a record, change the oil.
Charlie Rose: How is it different for you in terms of going solo or being a half of the Black Keys?
Dan Auerbach: Well, I mean, I guess for me when I'm working alone on something, it changes every time I go into the studio. It's whoever I'm working with that day, you know. When you're in a band, it's just you two and, you know, you have to work together kind of as usual.
Charlie Rose: You're a master of many trades. You're a producer, you have your own label. I mean, you really, you do it all.
Dan Auerbach: Yes, but it's all connected, you know. It's all sort of the same thing. I mean, when I was producing records and giving them to labels, you know, I was handing in the finished product, I was finding the photographer, I was helping find someone to put the album artwork together. I mean, it's like just sort of making records has been the thing that I really wanted to do since I was a kid.
Charlie Rose: You write songs along with John Prine.
Dan Auerbach: Yes, we got together. It was about last summer, I decided to take a break from touring. I needed to be at home. For the first time, I lived in Nashville almost eight years, and I never really spent much time there because I was on the road so much.
Charlie Rose: It's become one of America's most favorite cities.
Dan Auerbach: Well, it's become one of mine too. I got to settle in and not leave. And kind of settle into the way of life and check out some of the songwriting that I'd always heard about but I'd never really done before.
Charlie Rose: Your music video "Shine On Me", were you interviewed?
Dan Auerbach: Yes, by someone you might find familiar. (LAUGHTER) You. (MUSIC)
Charlie Rose: I should take that as a compliment, shouldn't I?
Dan Auerbach: Absolutely. Yes, absolutely.
Charlie Rose: Because -- why did you do that? What do you want to explore?
Dan Auerbach: The video was an animated video by a great director named Steven Mertens. He is out of Los Angeles. This was his idea. He sent me the treatment and I loved it. I loved his artwork and he put it together and it was so great.
Charlie Rose: Where do you want the music to go from here?
Dan Auerbach: I mean, music is just who I am, it's always been.
Charlie Rose: Yes.
Dan Auerbach: You know, I played music growing up with my family so music is just what I do, you know. It doesn't need to really go anywhere. Sometimes, it just needs to --
Charlie Rose: But does it tell you rather than you telling it?
Dan Auerbach: Every day is different. Every day I go in, it's something new, you know.And it's that creative process that I'm so addicted to. And it's just -- that's the beautiful thing about it.
Charlie Rose: Is any part of the process harder than others?
Dan Auerbach: Well, yes. I mean, touring is I think very difficult for me personally,being on the road all the time, being away from your family, kind of turns into groundhog day, it can, you know.
Charlie Rose: How do you and John Prine write?
Dan Auerbach: Everybody has guitar, sit in a circle. Somebody has an idea, start the ball rolling. And then if you have chemistry and if, you know, the gods are smiling on you, then you come up with something.
Charlie Rose: Let's talk about the song you did for us, Waiting On A Song. What's the origin of that?
Dan Auerbach: John said I got an idea. I said, what you got? He starts strumming.And you know, it's just the three chords, of course, because John Prine writes all the greatest songs ever with just three chords.
Charlie Rose: Right.
Dan Auerbach: And he said, I've been thinking, I've been humming, I've been picking, I've been strumming, waiting on a song. I said, that's pretty good, I like that a lot. And then he said, I've been hitching, I've been thumbing. And then I said, I can almost hear one coming. And then that was it, we just kept going, you know. We finished it up that day.
Charlie Rose: For you, the creative spark simply comes from living your life.
Dan Auerbach: Yes. I got hooked on that guitar and that music really early on.
Charlie Rose: Early on is the way.
Dan Auerbach: It was the thing. You know, all these musicians, you see all the musicians on the back, right?
Charlie Rose: Oh yeah, there they are.
Dan Auerbach: That's all these guys. You know, there's Duane Eddy, John Prine.There's Gene Chrisman and Bobby Wood. That's Kenny Malone and Dave Roe. So many great people.
Charlie Rose: Right.
Dan Auerbach: All those guys, they made some of my favorite records of all time.
Charlie Rose: Right.
Dan Auerbach: They participated on this record.
Charlie Rose: So that's an honor right there.
Dan Auerbach: Almost all of them played music with their families growing up. Pretty much every single one of them grew up in a musical family.
Charlie Rose: See, I didn't. I mean, that's one of the great regrets of my life. I mean, I grew up with books, but not with music.
Dan Auerbach: I think it's something about, with all these guys, we feel at home when we are playing music together. And I think because we all grew up doing that, you know.
Charlie Rose: Who has had the most influence on you?
Dan Auerbach: Well, my uncle taught me how to sing at first. And he sang Bluegrass songs. We sang together. Yes, my uncle Jim.
Charlie Rose: This is what you said about working with musical heavy. "Living in Nashville has definitely changed the way I think about music and the way that I record it."
Dan Auerbach: I feel that way. I've never felt, you know, I've never felt more inspiredbeing in the studio. I just can't wait to get there. I really feel like I met, all these guys, I mean, some of these guys are in their 70's, they meet me at the studio at 9:00 a.m., and sometimes we'll be there until 2:00 in the morning, and then we'll be there at 9:30 again the next day.
Charlie Rose: You share one thing, love of music.
Dan Auerbach: Well, it's the addiction to that creative process. We are all there for the same reason, because we know what it feels like to catch that special moment. I mean, you can be so sure about a song. We wrote the greatest song. It's so good.And then you go and record it, it sucks, you know.
Charlie Rose: Yes.
Dan Auerbach: You never know. It's like you have to be there. You have to try -- it's never a given.
Charlie Rose: It's almost like it can be perfect on paper but until you hear it and sing it, it doesn't make perfect --
Dan Auerbach: Until it comes back through those speakers the way -- and makes you feel like good inside, you know, you got to keep trying. We are addicted to that because, you know, we've had some success with songs. When you get it, there is just no greater rush, I think.
Charlie Rose: Congratulations.
Dan Auerbach: Thank you so much.
Charlie Rose: Great to have you.
Dan Auerbach: Thanks.
Charlie Rose: Thank you for joining us. See you next time.
